we're bound to each other in every possible way, except we need you to marry us.
have you given up so quickly on rosaline, whom you loved so much?
then young men love with their eyes, not with their hearts.
the groans you used to make are still ringing in my old ears.
there's still a stain on your cheek from an old tear that hasn't been washed off yet.
if you were ever yourself, and this sadness was yours, you and your sadness were all for rosaline.
then repeat this after me: you can't expect women to be faithful when men are so unreliable.
i didn't tell you to get rid of one love and replace her with another.
oh, she knew very well that you were acting like you were in love without really knowing what love means.
that fair-skinned, hard-hearted hussy, rosaline is going to torment him until he goes insane.
tybalt, old capulet's nephew, has sent a letter to romeo's father's house.
no, romeo will respond to the letter's writer, telling him whether he accepts the challenge.
keep going, keep going, or i'll declare myself the winner.
then isn't it just the right dish for a sweet goose?
oh, that's a joke made out of leather that spreads itself thin, from the width of an inch to as fat as a yard.
i stretch my joke for that word" fat." if you add that word to the word" goose," it shows that you are a fat goose.
i can tell you, but young romeo will be older when you find him than he was when you started looking for him.
he says more in one minute than he does in a whole month.
if he says anything against me, i'll humble him, even if he were stronger than he is-and twenty punks like him.
if i had seen something like that, i would have quickly pulled out my weapon.
believe me, i'll draw my sword as quick as any other man if i see a fight starting and the law is on my side.
i swear to you- you have a good heart, and believe me, i'll tell her that.
at friar lawrence's cell she can make confession and be married.
haven't you ever heard the saying," two can conspire to put one away"?
i make her angry sometimes by saying that paris is more handsome than you are.
but when i say so, i swear she turns white as a sheet.
love's messengers should be thoughts, which fly ten times faster than sunbeams.
if she was young and passionate, she'd move as fast as a ball.
my words would bounce her to my sweet love, and his words would bounce her back to me.
but a lot of old people act like they're already dead-sluggish, slow, fat, and colorless, like lead.
now, good sweet nurse-oh lord, why do you look so sad?
if the news is good, you're ruining the sweet news by playing a trick with a sour face like that.
i wish you had my bones, and i had your news.
he's not the most polite man in the world, but, believe me, he's gentle as a lamb.
sweet, sweet, sweet nurse, tell me, what did my love romeo say?
your love says, like an honorable gentleman, who is courteous, kind, handsome, and, i believe, virtuous- where is your mother?
your love says, like an honorable gentleman,' where is your mother?
your love will use it to climb up to your window while it's dark.
i hate the word peace like i hate hell, all montagues, and you.
old montague is here, and he's waving his sword around just to make me mad.
oh, a footstep as light as hers will never endure the rocky road of life.
i can imagine more than i can say-i have more on my mind than words.
come, come with me, and we'll do the job quickly.
you would fight with a man if he had one more whisker or one less whisker in his beard than you have in your beard.
you'll fight with a man who's cracking nuts just because you have hazelnut-colored eyes.
you started a fight with a man who coughed in the street because he woke up a dog that was sleeping in the sun.
didn't you argue it out with your tailor for wearing one of his new suits before the right season?
and with another for tying the new shoes he made with old laces?
either go someplace private, or talk it over rationally, or else just go away.
men's eyes were made to see things, so let them watch.
boy, your words can't excuse the harm you've done to me.
and so, good capulet-which is a name i love like my own name-you should be satisfied with what i say.
no, it's not as deep as a well, or as wide as a church door, but it's enough.
ask for me tomorrow, and you'll find me in a grave.
i can't believe that dog, that rat, that mouse, that cat could scratch me to death!
that braggart, punk villain who fights like he learned swordsmanship from a manual!
wretched boy, you hung out with him here, and you're going to go to heaven with him.
oh, noble prince, i can tell you everything about the unfortunate circumstances of this deadly fight.
i'll punish you so harshly that you'll regret causing me this loss.
you can't get out of trouble by praying or crying, so don't bother.
or else love is blind, and its best time is the night.
i wish night would come, like a widow dressed in black, so i can learn how to submit to my husband and lose my virginity.
you're whiter than snow on the black wings of a raven.
just say" yes" and i will turn more poisonous than the snake with the evil eye.
ah, where's my servant? -give me some brandy.-these griefs, these pains, these sorrows make me old.
oh, i was such a beast to be angry at him.
are you going to say good things about the man who killed your cousin?
i would be glad to forget about it, but it weighs on my memory like sins linger in guilty minds.
that banishment is worse than the murder of ten thousand tybalts.
tybalt's death would be bad enough if that was all.
i'll cry my tears for romeo's banishment when their tears are dry.
be merciful and say" death." exile is much worse than death.
don't say" banishment." from now on, you are banished from verona.
there is no world for me outside the walls of verona, except purgatory, torture, and hell itself.
so to be banished from verona is like being banished from the world, and being banished from the world is death.
calling death banishment is like cutting off my head with a golden ax and smiling while i'm being murdered.
flies are healthier and more honorable and better suited for romance than romeo.
flies can kiss her, but i must flee the city.
did you have no poison, no sharp knife, no weapon you could use to kill me quickly, nothing so disgraceful, except banishment?
your servants were fighting your enemy's servants before i got here.
as we were trading blows, more and more people showed up to join the fight, until the prince came and broke everyone up.
i headed toward him, but he saw me coming and hid in the woods.
he's been seen there many mornings, crying tears that add drops to the morning dew and making a cloudy day cloudier with his sighs.
i won't hide unless all the mist from my heartsick groans envelopes me like fog and conceals me from people's searching eyes.
oh, holy friar, oh, tell me, holy friar, where is my lady's husband?
what does my hidden wife say about our ruined love?
she's calling out my name as if i were a bullet murdering her, just like i murdered her relative.
tell me, friar, in what part of my body is my name embedded?
your wild actions resemble the irrational fury of a beast.
i swear by my holy order, i thought you were smarter and more rational than this.
why do you complain about your birth, the heavens, and the earth?
but like a misbehaved, sullen girl, you're whining about your bad luck and your love.
o lord, i could stay here all night listening to such good advice.
here, sir, this is a ring she asked me to give you.
everything depends on this: either be out of here before the night watchmen take their positions, or leave in disguise after daybreak.
i'll find your servant, and he'll update you now and then on your case as it stands here.
things have turned out so unluckily, sir, that we haven't had time to convince our daughter to marry you.
listen, she loved her cousin tybalt dearly, and so did i.
sir paris, i'll make a desperate argument for my child's love.
therefore we'll have about half a dozen friends to the wedding, and that's it.
that sound you heard was the it was the lark, the bird that sings at dawn, not the nightingale.
look, my love, what are those streaks of light in the clouds parting in the east?
it's some meteor coming out of the sun to light your way to mantua.
he locks himself up alone in his bedroom, shuts his windows to keep out the beautiful daylight, and makes himself an artificial night.
i hope you're lucky enough to hear the true story by sticking around.
oh, by this count i'll be many years older before i see my romeo again.
now that you are down there, you look like someone dead in the bottom of a tomb.
i hope maybe then you'll send him back home soon.
if you could, you couldn't bring him back to life.
a little bit of grief shows a lot of love.
feeling the loss like this, i can't help but weep for him forever.
well, girl, you're weeping not for his death as much as for the fact that the villain who killed him is still alive.
i'll never be satisfied with romeo until i see him.
i want to take the love i had for my cousin and take it out on the body of the man who killed him.
find out the way, and i'll find the right man.
now, i swear by saint peter's church and peter too, he will not make me a joyful bride there.
how can i marry him, this husband, before he comes to court me?
and, when i do marry, i swear, it will be romeo, whom you know i hate, rather than paris.
doesn't she realize how unworthy she is of the gentleman we have found to be her bridegroom?
i hear you say" proud" and" i thank you," and then" no thank you" and" not proud," you spoiled little girl.
good father, i'm begging you on my knees, be patient and listen to me say just one thing.
if you act like my daughter, i'll marry you to my friend.
or, if you don't delay, make my wedding bed in the tomb where tybalt lies.
don't talk to me, because i won't say a word.
how can i bring those promises back down to earth, unless my husband sends them back down to me by dying and going to heaven?
curse my very heart, but i think you should be happy in this second marriage, because it's better than your first.
even if it's not better, your first marriage is over.
i made my father angry, so i went to friar lawrence's cell to confess and be forgiven.
if i do so, it will mean more if i say it behind your back than if i say it to your face.
i hear that you must marry this count on thursday, and that nothing can delay it.
don't tell me that you've heard about this marriage, friar, unless you can tell me how to prevent it.
if you who are so wise can't help, please be kind enough to call my solution wise.
don't let the nurse stay with you in your bedroom.
nurse, will you come with me to my closet and help me pick out the clothes and the jewelry i'll need to wear tomorrow?
i'm sure you have your hands full preparing for the sudden festivities.
if you leave me like this, you're doing me wrong.
i've stayed up all night many times before for less important matters, and i've never gotten sick.
i'm smart enough to find the logs myself without bothering peter.
my child, my reason for living, wake up, look up, or i'll die with you!
have i waited so long to see this morning, only to see this?
the most you hope for was for her to marry wealthy and rise up the social ladder-that was your idea of heaven.
and now you cry, even though she has risen up above the clouds, as high as heaven itself?
oh, in this love, you love your child so badly, that you go mad, even though she is in heaven.
it is best to marry well and die young, better than to be married for a long time.
don't disturb the heavens any more by trying to go against heaven's will.
then i'll smack you on the head with the serving-creature's knife.
it is" music with her silver sound," because musicians have no gold to use to make sounds.
how sweet it would be to actually have the woman i love, when merely thinking about love makes me so happy.
her body sleeps in the capulet tomb, and her immortal soul lives with the angels in heaven.
i saw her buried in her family's tomb, and then i came here to tell you the news.
you wouldn't tell a sick man he" seriously" has to make his will-it would just make him worse.
yes she has, and by keeping celibate, she wastes her beauty.
you look pale and wild as if you're going to hurt yourself.
you're this poor and wretched and still afraid to die?
the world is not your friend, and neither is the law.
i pay you because you're poor, not because you want me to buy this.
but i'll write again to mantua, and i'll keep her in my cell until romeo comes.
live, and from now on, say a madman mercifully told you to run away.
juliet lies here, and her beauty fills this tomb with light.
death has sucked the honey from your breath, but it has not yet ruined your beauty.
should i believe that death is in love with you, and that the awful monster keeps you here to be his mistress?
here, here i'll remain with worms that are your chamber-maids.
how often tonight have my old feet stumbled on gravestones!
what is this blood that stains the stony entrance of this tomb?
come, i'll place you among the sisterhood of holy nuns.
poison, i see, has been the cause of his death.
perhaps there's still some poison on them, to make me die with a medicinal kiss.
we took this pickax and this shovel from him, as he was walking from this side of the graveyard.
what crimes happen so early in the morning that i have to wake up before the usual time?
that knife should be in its sheath on that montague's back, but instead it's mis-sheathed in my daughter's breast.
this sight of death is like a bell that warns me i'm old and i'll die soon.
i am the greatest, but i was able to do the least.
tonight i'm having a feast that we've celebrated for many years.
two unlucky children of these enemy families become lovers and commit suicide.
their unfortunate deaths put an end to their parents' feud.
but i've been sent to find the people whose names are written on this list, and i can't read!
i'm locked up in a prison and deprived of food.
signor valentio and his cousin tybalt, lucio and the lively helena." that's a nice group of people.
the beautiful rosaline whom you love so much will be at capulet's traditional feast, along with every beautiful woman in verona.
i swear to you by my virginity at age twelve, i already told her to come.
i'd bet fourteen of my own teeth-but, i'm sorry to say, i only have four teeth-she's not fourteen.
she and susan-god rest her and all christian souls-were born on the same day.
but like i said, on the night of lammas eve, she will be fourteen.
i had put bitter wormwood on my breast as i was sitting in the sun, under the wall of the dovehouse.
you'll fall backward when you grow up, won't you, jule?" and she stopped crying and said," yes." now you stop too, nurse, please.
here in verona there are girls younger than you-girls from noble families-who have already become mothers.
but i won't let myself fall for him any more than your permission allows.
my soul is made out of lead, and it's so heavy it keeps me stuck on the ground so i can't move.
take cupid's wings and fly higher than the average man.
his arrow has pierced me too deeply, so i can't fly high with his cheerful feathers.
a dog from that house will make me angry enough to take a stand.
i think it's too rough, too rude, too rowdy, and it pricks like a thorn.
if love plays rough with you, play rough with come on, let's knock and go in.
we mean well by going to this masquerade ball, but it's not smart of us to go.
oh, then i see you've been with who's queen mab?
sometimes she rides over a courtier's lips, and he dreams of making money off of someone.
sometimes she tickles a priest's nose with a enough, enough!
when only one or two men have all the good manners, and even they are dirty, things are bad.
you, good friend, save me a piece of marzipan, and if you love me, have the porter let in susan grindstone and nell.
i wouldn't insult him in my own house for all the wealth in this town.
now my sin has been taken from my lips by yours.
let me tell you, the man who marries her will become very wealthy.
the fight is between our masters, and we men who work for them.
and juliet's just as much in love as he, but she has even less opportunity to meet her lover.
but love gives them power, and time gives them the chance to meet, sweetening the extreme danger with intense pleasure.
there's no point in looking for him if he doesn't want to be found.
oh, i wish i was the glove on that hand so that i could touch that cheek.
if any of my relatives find you here they'll kill you because of who you are.
i'd rather they killed me than have to live without your love.
but if you have to swear, swear by your wonderful self, which is the god i worship like an idol, and then i'll believe you.
although you bring me joy, i can't take joy in this exchange of promises tonight.
i hope you enjoy the same sweet peace and rest i feel in my heart.
yet i wish i could take that promise back, so i had it to give again.
my generosity to you is as limitless as the sea, and my love is as deep.
because it's dark out, i'm afraid all this is just a dream, too sweet to be real.
the sound of lovers calling each others names through the night is silver-sweet.
i'll forget that i have any home besides this spot right here.
parting is such sweet sorrow that i'll say good night until tonight becomes tomorrow.
i wish i were sleep and peace, so i could spend the night with you.
now i'll go see my priest, to ask for his help and tell him about my good luck.
there is nothing on earth that is so evil that it does not provide the earth with some special quality.
inside the little rind of this weak flower, there is both poison and powerful medicine.
there are two opposite elements in everything, in men as well as in herbs-good and evil.
when evil is dominant, death soon kills the body like cancer.
every old man has worries, and worried men never get any sleep, but young men shouldn't have a care in the world.
they should get to bed early and get plenty of sleep.
therefore, the fact that you're awake this early tells me you've been upset with some anxiety.
if that's not the case, then this must be the answer: you, romeo, have not been to bed tonight.
you have the sacred power to cure both of us.
i carry no hatred, holy man, because my request will benefit my enemy.
yeah, while you're alive, you'll only draw your neck out of the hangman's collar.
no, sir, i did not give the finger to you, sir, but i did give the finger.
old montague is out there, and waves his blade in spite of me.
if ever you disturb our streets again, you will suffer the death penalty for breaking the peace.
the servants of capulet, and your servants, were fighting before i got there.
i wish you were happy to stay and hear his true confession.
alas, that love, so gentle in his promise, should be so tyrannous and rough in reality!
alas, that love, whose eyes are blindfolded, should, without eyes, see ways to have his will done.
never mind, don't tell me, for i have heard it all.
this love feel i makes me feel no love in this.
my own griefs lie heavy in my heart; which you will take over to have it paired with more grief of your own.
this love that you have shown adds more grief to mine which is already too much.
if you leave me so depressed, you do me wrong.
she will not put up with loving language nor tolerate loving looks, nor does she care if a guy is rich.
o, she's rich in beauty; only poor that, when she dies, her beauty dies with her.
she has, and in that decision, is wasting her looks and charms; for beauty, starved with this woman's severity, cuts beauty off from all posterity.
she has sworn not to love; and, in that vow, i am really dead as i stand here alive to tell you about it now.
that way is to call her beauty, which is exquisite, more into question.
of honorable status are you both; and it's a pity that you lived at odds so long.
the earth has swallowed all my hopes but she, she is the last hope i have.
at my poor house look to behold this night women like earth-treading stars that make dark heaven light.
at this same ancient feast of capulet's, the fair rosaline whom you love so much will have supper; with all the admired beauties of verona.
i'll go along, not to be shown such a sight, but to rejoice in splendor of my own love's looks.
now, by my virginity at twelve years old, i told her to come.
this is the matter, nurse, leave us alone a while, we must talk in secret.
nurse, come back again; i have remembered, you can hear our conversation.
i'll bet fourteen of my teeth, and yet, to tell the truth, i've only got four, she is not fourteen.
well, susan is with god; she was too good for me.
but, as i said, in the middle of july, she'll be fourteen; that she will, by mary; i remember it well.
i swear, if i should live a thousand yeas, i never should forget it;' won't you, jule?
by mary, that" marry" is what i want to talk about.
younger than you, here in verona, ladies of esteem, are made already mothers.
lady, such a man as all the world why he's the very image of a wax statue.
the fish lives in the sea; and it takes a lot of pride for beauty outside to hide without beauty inside.
you have dancing shoes, with nimble soles; i have a soul of lead that pins me to the ground.
you are a lover; borrow cupid's wings, and use them to soar above that leaden soul.
and, to sink in it, you should outweigh love; too great oppression for a tender feeling.
it is too rough, too rude, too boisterous; and it pricks like thorn.
come, knock and enter; and, as soon as we get in, every man start running.
i mean, sir, in delaying our entrance, we waste our lights in vain, like lamps by day.
take our good meaning, for our judgment sits five times more in that sense, than once in our five wits.
and we mean well, in going to this masquerade; but it's no great sport to go.
o, then, i see queen mab hath been with you.
but god who has the plan of my journey on this sea, direct my sail!
when good manners shall lie all in one or two men's hands, and they unwashed too, it's a foul thing.
please save me a piece of marzipan; and because you love me, let the porter let in susan grindstone and nell.
you are looked for and called for, asked for and sought for in the great chamber.
ladies whose toes are not plagued with corns will have a dance with you.
it's since the wedding of lucentio, come pentecost as quickly as it will, it's some five-and-twenty years since we masked.
what lady is that, who make the hand of that knight richer?
so a snowy dove trooping with crows shows as yonder lady over her fellows shows.
the dance done, i'll watch to see where she'll stand, and, touching her hand, will make blessed my rude hand.
what, dares the slave come hither, covered with a mask, to sneer and scorn at our feast?
now, by the stock and honor of my kin, i don't think it's a sin to strike him dead.
uncle, this is a montague, our foe; a villain, that has come here in spite, to scorn at our feast this night.
he bears himself like a portly gentleman; and, to say truth, verona brags of him to be a virtuous and well-governed youth.
i would not for the wealth of all the town do him disrespect here in my house.
if you respect my will, then show a fair presence and put off these frowns, they are not the proper expressions for a feast.
patience perhaps meeting with a willful temper makes my flesh tremble in their differences.
i will withdraw, but this intrusion shall, now seeming sweet, convert to bitter acid.
thus from my lips, by your lips, my sin is purged.
by mary, young man, her mother is the lady of the house.
ah, servant &bra; to 2 capulet &ket;, by my faith, it grows late; i'm going to sleep.
his name is romeo, and a montague; the only son of your great enemy.
it is a monstrous birth of love to me, that i must love a loathed enemy.
a rhyme i learned even now from someone i couldn't dance with.
the clock struck nine when i sent the nurse; she promised to return in half an hour.
love's heralds should be thoughts, which glide ten times faster than the sun's beams, driving back shadows over lowering hills.
this way doves with nimble wings draw love, and that's why the wind-swift cupid has wings.
i wish you had my bones, and i had your news.
he is not the flower of courtesy, but i'll guarantee that he is as gentle as a lamb.
my back on the other side, o, my back, my back!
curse your heart for sending me out to catch my death with prancing up and down!
sweet, sweet, sweet nurse, tell me, what does my love say?
your love says, like an honest gentleman," where is your mother?" o god's lady dear!
then go quickly to friar lawrence' cell; a husband waits there to make you a wife.
now comes the lusty blood up in your cheeks, they'll be bright red instantly at any news.
i am the slave and worker in your delight; but you shall bear the burden soon at night.
he doesn't hear, he doesn't make noise, he doesn't move; the fool is dead, and i must conjure him up!
my invocation is fair and honest, and, in his mistress' name, i only conjure him to raise up him.
come, he has hidden himself among these trees, to have a sexual liaison with the moody night.
now he'll sit under a medlar tree, and wish his mistress were that kind of fruit as maids call medlars when they laugh alone.
i'm going to my pull-out bed; this field-bed is too cold for me to sleep in.
go then; for it's useless to look for him here when he intends not to be found.
what if her eyes were there, they in her head?
o i wish i were a glove on that hand so that i might touch that cheek!
shall i hear more, or shall i speak at this?
that which we call a rose would smell as sweet if it had any other name.
so romeo, if he wasn't called" romeo," would retain that dear perfection which he has without that title.
romeo, throw your name away; and for that name, which isn't part of you, take all of me.
only call me" love," and i'll be baptized with a new name.
from now on, i'll never be" romeo." what man are you who, wrapped in the cover of night, stumbles on my private thoughts?
my name, dear saint, is hateful to me because it is an enemy to you.
my ears haven't yet heard a hundred words of that tongue's speech, and yet i know the sound; aren't you romeo, and a montague?
it's a shame, there is more danger in your eye than twenty of their swords.
i have night's cloak to hide me from their sight; and, if you love me, let them find me here.
my life were better ended by their hate than death postponed, wanting your love.
gladly i would dwell on form, gladly, gladly deny what i have spoken; but farewell polite words!
i know you will say," yes," and i will take your word.
o gentle romeo, if you do love, pronounce it faithfully.
i should have been more unfriendly, i must confess, but you overheard, before i was aware of you, my true love's passion.
therefore, pardon me, and not attribute this surrender to light love, which the dark night has discovered.
don't swear at all; or if you will, swear by your own gracious self, which is the god that i worship, and i'll believe you.
this bud of love, ripen by summer's breezes, may become a beautiful flower when next we meet.
may sweet repose and rest come to your heart such as that is within my breast!
i gave you my vow before you asked for it, and yet, i wish i could give it again.
i am afraid, standing in this night, that all this is only a dream, too promising and sweet to be real.
but if you don't mean well, i beg you, madam!
i'm coming to end your pursuit of me and leave me to my grief.
love goes toward love as schoolboy away from their books; but love goes from love, like boys towards school with heavy looks.
o i wish i had a falconer's voice to lure this hawk back to me again!
how silver-sweet is the sound of lovers' voices by night, like softest music to listening ears!
i shall forget just to have you stand there, remembering how i love your company.
and i'll still stay, to have you still forget, forgetting any other home but this one.
parting is such sweet sorrow that i shall say good night until it's tomorrow.
i wish i were sleep and peace, so sweet to rest!
i will go right away to my ghostly priest's house, to get his help and to tell him about my dear good fortune.
virtue itself can turn to vice, if it is misapplied; and vice is sometimes dignified by action.
i have been feasting with my enemy; where, all of a sudden, one has wounded me that's by me also wounded.
is rosaline, who you did love so dearly, so soon forsaken?
young men's love, then, lies not truly in their hearts, but in their eyes.
how much salt water was thrown away in waste, to season love, that did not taste love!
if ever you were yourself, and these woes yours, you and these woes were all for rosaline.
pronounce this sentence then women may fall when there's no strength in men.
not in a grave to lay one in, and take another out.
she whom i love now has grace for grace and love for love allowed.
ah, that same pale hard-hearted wench, that rosaline, torments him so that he will sure run mad.
tybalt, the kinsman to old capulet, has sent a letter to his father's house.
no, he will answer the letter's writer, how he dares being dared.
he fights as you sing prick-song keeps time, distance, and proportion; rests his minimum rest.
the pox of such antic, lisping, affecting absurd and irrational people; these new tuners of accents!
that's as much as to say, such a case as yours constrains a man to bend his legs.
your wit is a very bitter sweetness; it is a most sharp sauce.
o, here's a wit of kid leather, that stretches from an inch narrow to 45 inches wide!
i stretch it out for that word" broad," which added to the goose, proves you far and wide a broad goose.
now, you're sociable; now you're romeo; now you are what you are, by art as well as by nature.
for this idiotic love is like a great natural fool that runs lolling up and down to hide his toy in a hole.
you want me to stop in my tale against the hair.
good peter, to hide her face, for her fan has the fairer face.
it's no less, i tell you, for the bawdy hand of the clock is now upon the prick of noon.
one, gentlewoman, that god has made for himself to damage.
i can tell you, but" young" romeo will be older when you have found him than he was when you asked for him.
if you be he, sir, i desire some confidence with you.
please, sir, what rude salesman was this that was so full of his own trickery?
a gentleman, nurse, that loves to hear himself talk, and will speak more in a minute than you think should do for a month.
and you just stand by too, and suffer every knave to use me at his pleasure!
i would draw as soon as another man, if i see occasion in a good quarrel, and the law on my side.
i must protest your comments good heart, and in faith i will tell her as much.
bid her devise some means to come to confession this afternoon; and there she shall, at friar lawrence' cell, make her confession and married.
have you never heard the saying, two may keep counsel, putting the other one away?
so the heavens smile upon this holy act that after-hours will not scold us with sorrow!
these violent delights have violent ends, and in their triumph die, like fire and powder, which, as they kiss, consume each other.
the sweetest honey is loathsome in its own deliciousness, and in the taste destroys the appetite.
o, so light a foot will never wear out the everlasting sharpening stone.
why, you will quarrel with a man that has a hair more or a hair less in his beard than you have.
you have quarreled with a man for coughing in the street, because he woke up your dog that was asleep in the sun.
couple it with something; make it a word and a blow.
but i'll be hanged, sir, if he will put up with your insults.
boy, this walking away shall not excuse the injuries that you have done to me; therefore, turn and draw your sword.
will you pluck your sword out of its holder by the handle?
tybalt, mercutio, the prince has expressly forbidden this fighting in verona streets.
no, it's not as deep as a well, or as wide as a church door; but it's enough, it will do.
ask for me tomorrow, and you shall find me a grave man.
a dog, a rat, a mouse, a cat, to scratch a man to death!
a braggart, a rogue, a villain, that fights by the book of arithmetic!
that gallant spirit has gone into the clouds, which saw an untimely death here on earth.
gentleness, go away to heaven, and fire-eyed fury be my guide now!
you, wretched boy, that hung out with him here, will be with him there.
prince, as you are true, for blood of ours shed blood of montague.
romeo spoke nicely to him, asked him to consider how silly the quarrel was, and in addition, advised him of your high displeasure.
not romeo, prince; he was mercutio's friend; his mistake finishes only what the law should end, the life of tybalt.
and for that offence we immediately exile him from here.
i will be deaf to pleading and excuses, nor shall tears or prayers buy your way out.
let romeo go quickly away from here, or else, when he is found, that hour is his last.
close your curtain, love-performing night, so that rude eyes may look away, and romeo can leap to these arms, un-talked about and unseen.
come, civil night, you sober-suited matron, all in black, and teach me how to lose a winning match, played for a pair of stainless maidens.
so boring this day is, as the night before some festival is to an impatient child that has new clothes, and can't wear them.
you say only" i," and i shall poison that bare vowel more than the death-darting eye of the serpent hatched from an egg.
evil earth, die; end all motion here; and you and romeo lay in a heavy tomb!
tybalt is gone, and romeo banished; romeo killed him; he is banished.
just opposite to what you justly seem, a damned saint, an honorable villain!
o, that deceit should dwell in such a gorgeous palace!
there's no trust, no faith, no honesty in men; all are liars, all swear falsely, all nothing, all deceivers.
upon his brow, shame is ashamed to sit; for it's a throne where honor may be crowned the only king of the universal earth.
will you speak well of him that killed your cousin?
shall i speak ill of him that is my husband?
ah, poor my lord, what tongue shall clear your name, when i, your wife for three hours, have mangled it?
your drops of tribute belong to sorrow, which you, mistaken, have offered up to joy.
my husband lives, that tybalt would have slain, and tybalt's dead, that would have slain my husband.
some word there was, worse than tybalt's death, that murdered me.
i would gladly forget it, but, o, it presses into my memory like damned guilty deeds press into sinners' minds.
tybalt is dead, and romeo banished." that" banished," that one word" banished," has killed ten thousand tybalts.
but with a rear-ward following tybalt's death," romeo is banished." to speak that word is father, mother, tybalt, romeo, juliet, all slain, all dead.
my tears shall be spent, when theirs are dry, for romeo's banishment.
poor ropes, you are deceived, both you and i; for romeo is exiled.
he made you to be a highway to my bed; but i, a maid, die a maiden and a widow.
give this ring to my true knight, and bid him come to take his last farewell.
affliction is in love of your parts, and you are married to calamity.
what sorrow craves to know me at my hand, that i don't know yet?
a gentler judgment vanished from his lips, not your body's death, but your body's banishment.
be merciful, say death; for exile has more terror in his look, much more than death; do not say banishment.
there is no world without verona walls, only purgatory, torture, hell itself.
calling death banishment, you cut my head off with a golden axe, and smile on the stroke that murders me.
more legal authority, more honorable state, more courtship lives in flies on dead meat than romeo.
flies may do this, when i must fly from this.
unless philosophy can make a juliet, uproot a town, reverse a prince's sentence, it doesn't help, it doesn't succeed.
not i; unless the breath of heartsick groans, like a mist wraps me up and hides me from the search of eyes.
there on the ground, made drunk with his own tears.
o, it's the same in my mistress' case, just in her case!
doesn't she think i'm an old murderer, now i have stained the beginning of our joy with blood from a close relative?
and what says my hidden lady to our canceled love?
o, tell me, friar, tell me, in what vile part of this anatomy does my name live?
by my holy order, i thought your disposition was of a better temper.
and kill your lady, too, who lives in you, by doing damned hate to yourself?
why do you complain about your birth, the heaven, and earth?
since birth is heaven and heaven is earth, all three meet in you at once, which you would lose at once.
the law that threatened you with death becomes your friend and turns it into exile.
go, go to your love, as was decreed, ascend to her chamber there, and comfort her.
o lord, i could have stayed here all the night to hear good counsel.
here, sir, is a ring she asked me give you, sir.
i'll contact your man, and he shall bring, from time to time, news to you of every good event that happens here.
only that a joy beyond joy calls out to me, it's a grief so brief to part with you.
things have fallen out, sir, so unluckily that we have had no time to talk to our daughter.
listen, she loved her cousin tybalt dearly, and so did i.
i promise you, except for your company, i would have been in bed an hour ago.
i will, and i'll know her mind early tomorrow; tonight she's shut up with her grief.
sir paris, i will make a desperate offer of my child's love.
i think she will be ruled by me in all respects, no more, i don't doubt it.
on thursday, tell her, she shall be married to this noble earl.
so, we'll have some half a dozen friends, and that'll be it.
i swear that it is so very, very late that we should call it early by and by.
it was the lark, the messenger that says it's morning, no nightingale.
look, love, what jealous streaks of sunlight lace the parting clouds over there in the east.
night's candles are burned out, and the joyful day stands tiptoe on the misty mountain tops.
i have to go and live, or stay and die.
it is some meteor that the sun spits out to be a torch-bearer for you tonight and light your way to mantua.
some say the lark makes sweet division in its songs; this isn't true, because she divides us.
i must hear from you every hour of the day, because there are many days in just one minute.
o, by this count i'll be very old before i see my romeo again!
i don't doubt it, and all these sorrows shall become sweet memories that we can talk about in our future.
i think i see you, now you are below me, looking like someone dead in the bottom of a tomb.
if you are so fickle, what do you want with a guy who is known for his faith?
be changeable, luck, because then, i hope, you won't keep him long, but send him back to me.
and if you could, you couldn't bring him back to life.
a little grief shows much love; but too much of grief shows a little craziness.
feeling the loss so much, i can't help but weep for the friend forever.
well, girl, you are weeping not so much for his death as for the villain who lives who slaughtered him.
i pardon him, with all my heart; and yet no man like him makes my heart so sad.
indeed i'll never be satisfied with romeo till i see him dead.
you find the means, and i'll find such a man.
when the sun sets, the air drizzles dew, but for the funeral of my brother's son it pours rain.
doesn't she count her blessings that unworthy as she is, we have secured so worthy a gentleman to be her bridegroom?
i can never be proud of what i hate, but i can be thankful even for hate that is meant to be love.
get yourself to church on thursday, or never, after that, look me in the face.
talk about your serious speech over a gossip's bowl, because we don't need it here!.
is there no pity sitting in the clouds that sees into the bottom of my grief?
delay this marriage for a month, a week; or, if you don't, make my bridal bed in that dim tomb where tybalt lies.
how can i avoid committing a sin, unless the husband that heaven sent me dies?
what a pity, what a pity that heaven should practice its strategies on a weak subject such as i am!
then, since that's the story as it stands now, i think it best for you to marry the count.
go inside, and tell my mother that i'm going to lawrence' cell to make confession and be forgiven because i've made my father so angry.
my father capulet wants it that way; and i won't do anything to stop him from being so hasty.
i wish i knew a reason this wedding should be slowed down.
if i do so, it will be more valuable, being spoken behind your back than to your face.
the tears have gotten a small victory by that, my face was bad enough before my tears took their revenge.
what you say may be true, because my face is not mine.
are you busy now, holy father, or shall i come to you at evening mass?
i hear that you must, and nothing can prevent it, be married to this count on next thursday.
don't tell me, friar, that you heard about this, unless you can tell me how i can prevent it.
i want to die, if what you're going to say is not a solution to this problem.
i do see a kind of hope, which requires a plan as desperate as that event we want to prevent.
now, when the bridegroom comes in the morning to wake up from your bed, there you are, dead.
i'll send a friar to mantua quickly, with my letters to romeo.
no one will get food poisoning, sir; i'll watch to see if they lick their fingers.
by mary, sir, it's a sick cook that cannot lick his own fingers.
i met the youthful lord at lawrence' cell; and gave him what proper love i might, not overstepping the bounds of modesty.
now, before god, everyone in our whole city is much bound to this reverend holy friar.
nurse, will you go with me to my closet, and help me pick out the things you think i will need for tomorrow?
well, i will walk myself over to count paris' house, to prepare him for tomorrow.
my heart is wonderfully light since this same wayward girl is so reformed.
no, madam; we have selected the necessary things that are useful for our event tomorrow.
go to bed and rest, because you need to rest.
i have a faint, cold fear that scares my veins and it almost freezes up the heat of life.
what if, when i am laid in the tomb, i wake up before the time that romeo is supposed to come and get me?
i think i see my cousin's ghost looking for romeo who pierced his body with a sword's point.
the second rooster has crowed, the curfew bell has rung, it's three o'clock.
yeah, you have been a real weasel in your time, but i will watch you to keep you from staying up all night now.
things for the cook, sir; but i don't know what.
i have a head, sir, that will find out where the logs are, i don't have to bother peter.
the count will be here soon with music, because he said he would.
sleep for a week, because tonight, i guarantee, count paris has set up his rest so that you shall rest but little.
o son, the night before your wedding day death has slept with your bride.
she lies there, like the flower that she was, her virginity taken by him.
i have long thought i would see this morning's face, and does it give me such a sight as this?
most miserable hour that time ever saw in lasting work of his travels!
most lamentable day, most woeful day that ever, ever, i have seen!
uncomfortable time, why do you come now to murder, murder our solemnity?
for pity, my child is dead; and, with my child, my joys are buried!
o, in this kind of love, you love your child so badly that you are going crazy, seeing that she is well.
sir, you go inside, and, madam, go with him; and go, sir paris.
then i will lay the serving-creature's dagger on your head.
if you" re" us and" fa" us, you note us.
please put away your dagger, and pull out your wit.
i will beat you severely with an iron wit, and put away my iron dagger.
it is" music with her silver sound" because musicians have no gold for making sounds.
then music with her silver sound" with speedy help gives relief from sorrow." what kind of an annoying knave is this guy?!
come, we'll go in here, wait for the mourners, and stay for dinner.
my heart is very light in my chest, and all this day an unusually happy spirit lifts me above the ground with cheerful thoughts.
i dreamed that my lady came and found me dead, strange dream, that gives a dead man a second thought!
and she breathed such life with her kisses on my lips, that i was brought back to life, and i was an emperor.
how sweet love is when it is yours, when only love's shadows are so rich in joy!
her body sleeps in the capulet tomb, and her soul lives with the angels.
i saw her burial in her relative's vault, and the i rushed to tell you.
you look pale and wild, and these signs some bad luck.
i do remember a pharmacist, and lives near here, who i noticed was dressed in in tattered weeds, with overwhelming eyebrows, choosing the simple life.
i have such deadly drugs, but mantua's law gives the death penalty to anybody who sells them.
you are so naked and full of misery and you're afraid to die?
then whistle to me as signal that you hear something approaching.
i am almost afraid to stand alone here in the churchyard, but i will stay.
i will keep saying the funeral prayers for you, and i will come every night to put flowers on your grave and weep.
what cursed foot wanders this way tonight, to disturb my funeral prayers and the rites of true love?
first thing in the morning, see that you deliver it to my lord and father.
the time and my intents are savage and wild, so much ore fierce and more determined than hungry tigers or the roaring sea.
by heaven, i love you better than i love myself, because i came here only armed against myself.
live, and later you will say, a madman's mercy made you run away.
i defy your solemn appeal, and i here arrest you as a felon.
if you are merciful, open the tomb, lay me with juliet.
what my man say, when my soul was tossing and turning and i didn't pay attention to him as we rode?
or i'm crazy to think it was so, hearing him talk of juliet?
o, give me your hand, one written along with me in sour luck's book!
o, no, a lantern, slaughtered youth, because juliet lies here, and her beauty makes this tomb a party room full of light.
how often, when men are at the point of death have they been happy?!
death, that has sucked the honey of your breath, has had no power yet on your beauty.
beauty's officer is still red on your lips and in your cheeks, and death's pale flag is not yet planted there.
because i'm afraid of that, i still will stay with you, and never leave this palace of dim night again.
here, here i will remain with the worms that are your maids.
o, here i will set up my everlasting rest, and shake off the bonds of unlucky stars from my world-wearied body.
and, lips, o you the doors of breath, seal a timeless bargain with death, who will take everything, with a righteous kiss!
you desperate sea captain, now run your sea-sick weary ship onto the dashing rocks all at once!
how often tonight have my old feet stumbled over graves!
it's me, a friend, and one that knows you well.
it does, holy sir; and my master is in there, one that you love.
what do these master-less and gory swords mean by lying here with blood on them in this place of peace?
ah, what an unlucky hour is guilty of this lamentable event!
your husband in your bosom lies dead there, and paris too.
come, i'll hide you among a sisterhood of holy nuns.
you drank it all and didn't leave just a friendly drop to help me join you?
maybe some poison is still on them, to make me die by restoring me.
here the count lies slain, and juliet bleeding, warm, and newly dead, who has been buried in this tomb for two days.
we see the ground on which these sorrows lie, but we cannot find the true ground of all these piteous woes without knowing what happened.
we took this chisel-edged pick and this shovel from him as he was coming from this side of the churchyard.
what unlucky event is up so early, that calls me from my morning's rest?
the people in the street cry" romeo," some" juliet," and some" paris," and all run with open outcries toward our tomb.
sovereign, here lies count paris slain, and romeo dead, and juliet, who was dead before, no warm and newly killed.
here is a friar, and dead romeo's man, with instruments on him that are fit to open these dead men's tombs.
this dagger has been mistaken, for, behold, his empty case is on the back of montague, and it's misplaced in my daughter's bosom!
this sight of death is as a bell that warns my old age to a tomb.
come, montague; because you are up early to see your son and heir taken down even earlier.
what kind of manners is it to go to a grave before your father?
romeo, there dead, was husband to that juliet; and she, there dead, was romeo's faithful wife.
you, to remove that siege of grief from her, engaged and would have married her against her will, to count paris.
but the man who carried my letter, friar john, was delayed by accident, and last night returned my letter to me.
but when i got here, some minutes before the time of her waking up, here the noble paris lay and true romeo, both untimely dead.
i brought news of juliet's death to my master, and then he came from mantua, by horse, to this same place, to this same tomb.
he came to scatter flowers on his lady's grave, and asked me to stand off to the side, and so i did.
capulet, montague, see what a cruel calamity is caused your hate, that heaven finds a way to kill your joys with love!
and i, for disregarding your feud too, have lost a number of relatives.
this is my daughter's dowry, for i can command no more.
romeo's shall be as rich, lying by his lady's side, poor sacrifices of our hatred!
