as mine on hers, so hers is set on mine, and all combined, save what thou must combine by holy marriage.
is rosaline, whom thou didst love so dear, so soon forsaken?
young men's love then lies not truly in their hearts, but in their eyes.
the sun not yet thy sighs from heaven clears, thy old groans ring yet in my ancient ears.
lo, here upon thy cheek the stain doth sit of an old tear that is not washed off yet.
if e'er thou wast thyself and these woes thine, thou and these woes were all for rosaline.
pronounce this sentence then: women may fall when there's no strength in men.
not in a grave, to lay one in, another out to have.
oh, she knew well thy love did read by rote, that could not spell.
why, that same pale hard-hearted wench, that rosaline, torments him so, that he will sure run mad.
tybalt, the kinsman to old capulet, hath sent a letter to his father's house.
nay, he will answer the letter's master, how he dares, being dared.
switch and spurs, switch and spurs, or i'll cry a match.
and is it not well served into a sweet goose?
oh, here's a wit of cheveril, that stretches from an inch narrow to an ell broad!
i stretch it out for that word" broad," which, added to the goose, proves thee far and wide a broad goose.
i can tell you, but young romeo will be older when you have found him than he was when you sought him.
a gentleman, nurse, that loves to hear himself talk, and will speak more in a minute than he will stand to in a month.
an he speak any thing against me, i'll take him down, an he were lustier than he is, and twenty such jacks.
if i had, my weapon should quickly have been out, i warrant you.
i dare draw as soon as another man if i see occasion in a good quarrel and the law on my side.
i protest unto thee- good heart, and i' faith, i will tell her as much.
and there she shall at friar lawrence' cell be shrived and married.
did you ne'er hear say," two may keep counsel, putting one away"?
i anger her sometimes and tell her that paris is the properer man.
but, i'll warrant you, when i say so, she looks as pale as any clout in the versal world.
love's heralds should be thoughts, which ten times faster glide than the sun's beams, driving back shadows over louring hills.
had she affections and warm youthful blood, she would be as swift in motion as a ball.
my words would bandy her to my sweet love, and his to me.
but old folks, many feign as they were dead, unwieldy, slow, heavy, and pale as lead.
now, good sweet nurse- o lord, why look'st thou sad?
if good, thou shamest the music of sweet news by playing it to me with so sour a face.
i would thou hadst my bones and i thy news.
he is not the flower of courtesy, but, i'll warrant him, as gentle as a lamb.
sweet, sweet, sweet nurse, tell me, what says my love?
your love says, like an honest gentleman, and a courteous, and a kind, and a handsome, and, i warrant, a virtuous- where is your mother?
your love says, like an honest gentleman,' where is your mother?
i must another way to fetch a ladder, by the which your love must climb a bird's nest soon when it is dark.
i hate the word, as i hate hell, all montagues, and thee.
old montague is come, and flourishes his blade in spite of me.
oh, so light a foot will ne'er wear out the everlasting flint.
conceit, more rich in matter than in words, brags of his substance, not of ornament.
come, come with me, and we will make short work.
thou, why, thou wilt quarrel with a man that hath a hair more or a hair less in his beard than thou hast.
thou wilt quarrel with a man for cracking nuts, having no other reason but because thou hast hazel eyes.
thou hast quarreled with a man for coughing in the street because he hath wakened thy dog that hath lain asleep in the sun.
didst thou not fall out with a tailor for wearing his new doublet before easter?
with another, for tying his new shoes with old ribbon?
either withdraw unto some private place, and reason coldly of your grievances, or else depart.
men's eyes were made to look and let them gaze.
boy, this shall not excuse the injuries that thou hast done me.
and so, good capulet-which name i tender as dearly as my own-be satisfied.
no,' tis not so deep as a well nor so wide as a church-door, but' tis enough,' twill serve.
ask for me tomorrow, and you shall find me a grave man.
zounds, a dog, a rat, a mouse, a cat to scratch a man to death!
a braggart, a rogue, a villain that fights by the book of arithmetic!
thou, wretched boy, that didst consort him here shalt with him hence.
o noble prince, i can discover all the unlucky manage of this fatal brawl.
but i'll amerce you with so strong a fine that you shall all repent the loss of mine.
nor tears nor prayers shall purchase out abuses, therefore use none.
lovers can see to do their amorous rites by their own beauties, or, if love be blind, it best agrees with night.
come, civil night, thou sober-suited matron, all in black, and learn me how to lose a winning match played for a pair of stainless maidenhoods.
come, thou day in night, for thou wilt lie upon the wings of night whiter than new snow upon a raven's back.
say thou but" ay," and that bare vowel than the death-darting eye of cockatrice.
ah, where's my man? -give me some aqua vitae.- these griefs, these woes, these sorrows make me old.
sole monarch of the universal earth, oh, what a beast was i to chide at him!
will you speak well of him that killed your cousin?
i would forget it fain, but oh, it presses to my memory, like damned guilty deeds to sinners' minds.
that" banished," that one word" banished" hath slain ten thousand tybalts.
tybalt's death was woe enough, if it had ended there.
mine shall be spent when theirs are dry, for romeo's banishment.
be merciful, say" death," for exile hath more terror in his look, much more than death.
do not say" banishment." hence from verona art thou banished.
there is no world without verona walls but purgatory, torture, hell itself.
hence" banished" is banished from the world, and world's exile is death.
calling death" banishment," thou cutt'st my head off with a golden ax and smilest upon the stroke that murders me.
more validity, more honorable state, more courtship lives in carrion flies than romeo.
flies may do this, but i from this must fly.
hadst thou no poison mixed, no sharp-ground knife, no sudden mean of death, though ne'er so mean, but" banished" to kill me? -" banished"!
here were the servants of your adversary, and yours, close fighting ere i did approach.
while we were interchanging thrusts and blows, came more and more and fought on part and part, till the prince came, who parted either part.
towards him i made, but he was' ware of me and stole into the covert of the wood.
many a morning hath he there been seen, with tears augmenting the fresh morning's dew, adding to clouds more clouds with his deep sighs.
not i, unless the breath of heartsick groans, mistlike, infold me from the search of eyes.
o holy friar, o, tell me, holy friar, where is my lady's lord?
and what says my concealed lady to our canceled love?
as if that name, shot from the deadly level of a gun, did murder her, as that name's cursed hand murdered her kinsman.
o, tell me, friar, tell me, in what vile part of this anatomy doth my name lodge?
thy wild acts denote the unreasonable fury of a beast.
by my holy order, i thought thy disposition better tempered.
why rail'st thou on thy birth, the heaven, and earth?
but, like a misbehaved and sullen wench, thou pout'st upon thy fortune and thy love.
o lord, i could have stayed here all the night to hear good counsel.
here, sir, a ring she bid me give you, sir.
and here stands all your state: either be gone before the watch be set, or by the break of day disguised from hence.
i'll find out your man, and he shall signify from time to time every good hap to you that chances here.
things have fall'n out, sir, so unluckily, that we have had no time to move our daughter.
look you, she loved her kinsman tybalt dearly, and so did i.
sir paris, i will make a desperate tender of my child's love.
therefore we'll have some half a dozen friends, and there an end.
it was the nightingale, and not the lark, that pierced the fearful hollow of thine ear.
look, love, what envious streaks do lace the severing clouds in yonder east.
it is some meteor that the sun exhales to be to thee this night a torchbearer, and light thee on thy way to mantua.
and private in his chamber pens himself, shuts up his windows, locks fair daylight out, and makes himself an artificial night.
i would thou wert so happy by thy stay to hear true shrift.-come, madam, let's away.
oh, by this count i shall be much in years ere i again behold my romeo.
methinks i see thee now, thou art so low as one dead in the bottom of a tomb.
be fickle, fortune, for then, i hope, thou wilt not keep him long, but send him back.
an if thou couldst, thou couldst not make him live.
some grief shows much of love, but much of grief shows still some want of wit.
feeling so the loss, cannot choose but ever weep the friend.
well, girl, thou weep'st not so much for his death, as that the villain lives which slaughtered him.
indeed, i never shall be satisfied with romeo, till i behold him-dead- is my poor heart for a kinsman vexed.
to wreak the love i bore my cousin upon his body that slaughtered him!
find thou the means, and i'll find such a man.
now, by saint peter's church and peter too, he shall not make me there a joyful bride.
i wonder at this haste, that i must wed ere he, that should be husband, comes to woo.
and when i do, i swear it shall be romeo, whom you know i hate, rather than paris.
doth she not count her blessed, unworthy as she is, that we have wrought so worthy a gentleman to be her bride?
proud," and" i thank you," and" i thank you not," and yet" not proud"?
good father, i beseech you on my knees, hear me with patience but to speak a word.
an you be mine, i'll give you to my friend.
or, if you do not, make the bridal bed in that dim monument where tybalt lies.
talk not to me, for i'll not speak a word.
how shall that faith return again to earth, unless that husband send it me from heaven by leaving earth?
beshrew my very heart, i think you are happy in this second match, for it excels your first.
or if it did not, your first is dead, or' twere as good he were, as living here and you no use of him.
go in, and tell my lady i am gone, having displeased my father, to lawrence's cell to make confession and to be absolved.
if i do so, it will be of more price being spoke behind your back than to your face.
i hear thou must, and nothing may prorogue it, on thursday next be married to this county.
tell me not, friar, that thou hear'st of this, unless thou tell me how i may prevent it.
if in thy wisdom thou canst give no help, do thou but call my resolution wise, and with this knife i'll help it presently.
let not the nurse lie with thee in thy chamber.
nurse, will you go with me into my closet to help me sort such needful ornaments as you think fit to furnish me tomorrow?
for, i am sure, you have your hands full all in this so sudden business.
and if you leave me so, you do me wrong.
i have watched ere now all night for lesser cause, and ne'er been sick.
i have a head, sir, that will find out logs, and never trouble peter for the matter.
my child, my only life, revive, look up, or i will die with thee! - help, help!
have i thought long to see this morning's face, and doth it give me such a sight as this?
the most you sought was her promotion, for' twas your heaven she should be advanced.
and weep ye now, seeing she is advanced above the clouds, as high as heaven itself?
oh, in this love, you love your child so ill that you run mad, seeing that she is well.
she's not well married that lives married long, but she's best married that dies married young.
the heavens do lour upon you for some ill. move them no more by crossing their high will.
then will i lay the serving creature's dagger on your pate.
it is" music with her silver sound" because musicians have no gold for sounding.
how sweet is love itself possessed when but love's shadows are so rich in joy!
her body sleeps in capels' monument, and her immortal part with angels lives.
i saw her laid low in her kindred's vault and presently took post to tell it you.
a sick man in sadness makes his will, a word ill urged to one that is so ill.
she hath, and in that sparing makes huge waste, for beauty, starved with her severity, cuts beauty off from all posterity.
your looks are pale and wild, and do import some misadventure.
art thou so bare and full of wretchedness, and fear'st to die?
the world is not thy friend nor the world's law.
buy food, and get thyself in flesh.- come, cordial and not poison, go with me to juliet's grave, for there must i use thee.
but i will write again to mantua, and keep her at my cell till romeo come.
live, and hereafter say a madman's mercy bid thee run away.
a lantern, slaughtered youth, for here lies juliet, and her beauty makes this vault a feasting presence full of light.
death, that hath sucked the honey of thy breath, hath had no power yet upon thy beauty.
shall i believe that unsubstantial death is amorous, and that the lean abhorred monster keeps thee here in dark to be his paramour?
here, here will i remain with worms that are thy chamber maids.
how oft tonight have my old feet stumbled at graves! -who's there?
romeo! - alack, alack, what blood is this, which stains the stony entrance of the sepulcher?
come, i'll dispose of thee among a sisterhood of holy nuns.
poison, i see, hath been his timeless end.- o churl, drunk all, and left no friendly drop to help me after?
haply some poison yet doth hang on them, to make me die with a restorative.
we took this mattock and this spade from him as he was coming from this churchyard's side.
what misadventure is so early up that calls our person from our morning rest?
this dagger hath mista'en-for, lo, his house is empty on the back of montague, and it mis-sheathed in my daughter's bosom.
this sight of death is as a bell, that warns my old age to a sepulcher.
i am the greatest, able to do least, yet most suspected, as the time and place doth make against me, of this direful murder.
this night i hold an old accustomed feast, whereto i have invited many a guest such as i love.
such comfort as do lusty young men feel when well-appareled april on the heel of limping winter treads.
even such delight among fresh fennel buds shall you this night inherit at my house.
but i am sent to find those persons whose names are here writ, and can never find what names the writing person hath here writ.
not mad, but bound more than a madman is, shut up in prison, kept without my food, whipped and tormented and-good e'en, good fellow.
seigneur valentio and his cousin tybalt; lucio and the lively helena." a fair assembly.
at this same ancient feast of capulet's sups the fair rosaline whom thou so loves with all the admired beauties of verona.
now, by my maidenhead at twelve year old i bade her come.
i'll lay fourteen of my teeth-and yet, to my teen be it spoken, i have but four-she is not fourteen.
susan and she-god rest all christian souls! - were of an age.
but, as i said, on lammas eve at night shall she be fourteen.
for i had then laid wormwood to my dug, sitting in the sun under the dovehouse wall.
wilt thou not, jule?" it stinted and said" ay." and stint thou too, i pray thee, nurse, say i.
younger than you here in verona, ladies of esteem are made already mothers.
but no more deep will i endart mine eye than your consent gives strength to make it fly.
i have a soul of lead so stakes me to the ground i cannot move.
borrow cupid's wings and soar with them above a common bound.
i am too sore enpierced with his shaft to soar with his light feathers, and so bound, i cannot bound a pitch above dull woe.
a dog of that house shall move me to stand.
it is too rough, too rude, too boisterous, and it pricks like thorn.
if love be rough with you, be rough with love.
and we mean well in going to this mask, but' tis no wit to go.
oh, then, i see queen mab hath been with you.
sometime she gallops o'er a courtier's nose, and then dreams he of smelling out a suit.
and sometime comes she with a tithe-pig's tail tickling a parson's nose as he lies asleep, then he dreams of another benefice.
when good manners shall lie all in one or two men's hands, and they unwashed too,' tis a foul thing.
good thou, save me a piece of marchpane, and, as thou loves me, let the porter let in susan grindstone and nell.-antony and potpan!
i would not for the wealth of all the town here in my house do him disparagement.
thus from my lips, by thine, my sin is purged.
i tell you, he that can lay hold of her shall have the chinks.
the quarrel is between our masters and us their men.
and she as much in love, her means much less to meet her new beloved anywhere.
but passion lends them power, time means, to meet, tempering extremities with extreme sweet.
go, then, for' tis in vain to seek him here that means not to be found.
oh, that i were a glove upon that hand that i might touch that cheek!
the orchard walls are high and hard to climb, and the place death, considering who thou art, if any of my kinsmen find thee here.
my life were better ended by their hate than death prorogued, wanting of thy love.
or, if thou wilt, swear by thy gracious self, which is the god of my idolatry, and i'll believe thee.
although i joy in thee, i have no joy of this contract tonight.
as sweet repose and rest come to thy heart as that within my breast.
i gave thee mine before thou didst request it, and yet i would it were to give again.
my bounty is as boundless as the sea, my love as deep.
i am afeard, being in night, all this is but a dream, too flattering sweet to be substantial.
how silver-sweet sound lovers' tongues by night, like softest music to attending ears!
and i'll still stay, to have thee still forget, forgetting any other home but this.
parting is such sweet sorrow that i shall say good night till it be morrow.
would i were sleep and peace, so sweet to rest.
hence will i to my ghostly friar's close cell, his help to crave and my dear hap to tell.
for naught so vile that on the earth doth live but to the earth some special good doth give.
within the infant rind of this small flower poison hath residence and medicine power.
two such opposed kings encamp them still, in man as well as herbs-grace and rude will.
and where the worser is predominant, full soon the canker death eats up that plant.
care keeps his watch in every old man's eye, and where care lodges, sleep will never lie.
but where unbruised youth with unstuffed brain doth couch his limbs, there golden sleep doth reign.
therefore thy earliness doth me assure thou art uproused by some distemperature.
or if not so, then here i hit it right: our romeo hath not been in bed tonight.
both our remedies within thy help and holy physic lies.
i bear no hatred, blessed man, for, lo, my intercession likewise steads my foe.
ay, while you live, draw your neck out of the collar.
no, sir, i do not bite my thumb at you, sir; but i bite my thumb, sir.
old montague is come and flourishes his blade in spite of me.
if ever you disturb our streets again, your lives shall pay the forfeit of the peace.
here were the servants of your adversary and yours, close fighting ere i did approach.
i would thou wert so happy by thy stay to hear true shrift.
alas that love, so gentle in his view, should be so tyrannous and rough in proof!
alas that love, whose view is muffled still, should without eyes see pathways to his will!
yet tell me not, for i have heard it all.
this love feel i, that feel no love in this.
griefs of mine own lie heavy in my breast, which thou wilt propagate, to have it prest with more of thine.
this love that thou hast shown doth add more grief to too much of mine own.
an if you leave me so, you do me wrong.
she will not stay the siege of loving terms, nor bide th' encounter of assailing eyes, nor ope her lap to saint-seducing gold.
o, she's rich in beauty; only poor that, when she dies, with beauty dies her store.
she hath, and in that sparing makes huge waste; for beauty, starv'd with her severity, cuts beauty off from all posterity.
she hath forsworn to love, and in that vow do i live dead that live to tell it now.
tis the way to call hers, exquisite, in question more.
of honourable reckoning are you both, and pity' tis you liv'd at odds so long.
the earth hath swallowed all my hopes but she; she is the hopeful lady of my earth.
at my poor house look to behold this night earth-treading stars that make dark heaven light.
at this same ancient feast of capulet's sups the fair rosaline whom thou so lov'st; with all the admired beauties of verona.
i'll go along, no such sight to be shown, but to rejoice in splendour of my own.
now, by my maidenhead at twelve year old, i bade her come.
this is the matter-nurse, give leave awhile, we must talk in secret.
nurse, come back again; i have remember'd me, thou shalt hear our counsel.
i'll lay fourteen of my teeth- and yet, to my teen be it spoken, i have but four- she is not fourteen.
well, susan is with god; she was too good for me.
but, as i said, on lammas eve at night shall she be fourteen; that shall she, marry; i remember it well.
i warrant, an i should live a thousand years, i never should forget it.
marry, that' marry' is the very theme i came to talk of.
younger than you, here in verona, ladies of esteem, are made already mothers.
lady, such a man as all the world- why he's a man of wax.
the fish lives in the sea, and' tis much pride for fair without the fair within to hide.
you have dancing shoes with nimble soles; i have a soul of lead so stakes me to the ground i cannot move.
borrow cupid's wings and soar with them above a common bound.
and, to sink in it, should you burden love- too great oppression for a tender thing.
it is too rough, too rude, too boist'rous, and it pricks like thorn.
come, knock and enter; and no sooner in but every man betake him to his legs.
i mean, sir, in delay we waste our lights in vain, like lamps by day.
take our good meaning, for our judgment sits five times in that ere once in our five wits.
and we mean well, in going to this mask; but' tis no wit to go.
o, then i see queen mab hath been with you.
but he, that hath the steerage of my course, direct my sail!
when good manners shall lie all in one or two men's hands, and they unwash'd too,' tis a foul thing.
good thou, save me a piece of marchpane and, as thou lovest me, let the porter let in susan grindstone and nell.
you are look'd for and call'd for, ask'd for and sought for, in the great chamber.
ladies that have their toes unplagu'd with corns will have a bout with you.
tis since the nuptial of lucentio, come pentecost as quickly as it will, some five-and-twenty years, and then we mask'd.
what lady's that, which doth enrich the hand of yonder knight?
so shows a snowy dove trooping with crows as yonder lady o'er her fellows shows.
the measure done, i'll watch her place of stand and, touching hers, make blessed my rude hand.
what, dares the slave come hither, cover'd with an antic face, to fleer and scorn at our solemnity?
now, by the stock and honour of my kin, to strike him dead i hold it not a sin.
uncle, this is a montague, our foe; a villain, that is hither come in spite to scorn at our solemnity this night.
he bears him like a portly gentleman, and, to say truth, verona brags of him to be a virtuous and well-govern'd youth.
i would not for the wealth of all this town here in my house do him disparagement.
it is my will; the which if thou respect, show a fair presence and put off these frowns, an ill-beseeming semblance for a feast.
patience perforce with wilful choler meeting makes my flesh tremble in their different greeting.
i will withdraw; but this intrusion shall, now seeming sweet, convert to bitt'rest gall.
thus from my lips, by thine my sin is purg'd.
marry, bachelor, her mother is the lady of the house.
ah, sirrah, by my fay, it waxes late; i'll to my rest.
his name is romeo, and a montague, the only son of your great enemy.
prodigious birth of love it is to me that i must love a loathed enemy.
a rhyme i learn'd even now of one i danc'd withal.
the clock struck nine when i did send the nurse; in half an hour she promis'd to return.
love's heralds should be thoughts, which ten times faster glide than the sun's beams driving back shadows over low'ring hills.
therefore do nimble-pinion'd doves draw love, and therefore hath the wind-swift cupid wings.
i would thou hadst my bones, and i thy news.
he is not the flower of courtesy, but, i'll warrant him, as gentle as a lamb.
my back o' t' other side, -ah, my back, my back!
beshrew your heart for sending me about to catch my death with jaunting up and down!
sweet, sweet, sweet nurse, tell me, what says my love?
your love says, like an honest gentleman," where is your mother?"' o god's lady dear!
then hie you hence to friar laurence' cell; there stays a husband to make you a wife.
now comes the wanton blood up in your cheeks: they'll be in scarlet straight at any news.
i am the drudge, and toil in your delight; but you shall bear the burden soon at night.
he heareth not, he stirreth not, be moveth not; the ape is dead, and i must conjure him.
that were some spite; my invocation is fair and honest: in his mistress' name, i conjure only but to raise up him.
come, he hath hid himself among these trees to be consorted with the humorous night.
now will he sit under a medlar tree and wish his mistress were that kind of fruit as maids call medlars when they laugh alone.
i'll to my truckle-bed; this field-bed is too cold for me to sleep.
go then, for' tis in vain' to seek him here that means not to be found.
what if her eyes were there, they in her head?
o that i were a glove upon that hand, that i might touch that cheek!
shall i hear more, or shall i speak at this?
that which we call a rose by any other name would smell as sweet.
so romeo would, were he not romeo call'd, retain that dear perfection which he owes without that title.
romeo, doff thy name; and for that name, which is no part of thee, take all myself.
call me but love, and i'll be new baptiz'd; henceforth i never will be romeo.
what man art thou that, thus bescreen'd in night, so stumblest on my counsel?
my name, dear saint, is hateful to myself, because it is an enemy to thee.
my ears have yet not drunk a hundred words of that tongue's utterance, yet i know the sound.
alack, there lies more peril in thine eye than twenty of their swords!
i have night's cloak to hide me from their eyes; and but thou love me, let them find me here.
my life were better ended by their hate than death prorogued, wanting of thy love.
fain would i dwell on form, fain, fain deny what i have spoke; but farewell complement!
i know thou wilt say' ay'; and i will take thy word.
o gentle romeo, if thou dost love, pronounce it faithfully.
i should have been more strange, i must confess, but that thou overheard'st, ere i was ware, my true love's passion.
therefore pardon me, and not impute this yielding to light love, which the dark night hath so discovered.
do not swear at all; or if thou wilt, swear by thy gracious self, which is the god of my idolatry, and i'll believe thee.
this bud of love, by summer's ripening breath, may prove a beauteous flower when next we meet.
as sweet repose and rest come to thy heart as that within my breast!
i gave thee mine before thou didst request it; and yet i would it were to give again.
i am afeard, being in night, all this is but a dream, too flattering-sweet to be substantial.
i come, anon.-but if thou meanest not well, i do beseech thee- madam!
by-and-by, i come.- to cease thy suit and leave me to my grief.
love goes toward love as schoolboys from their books; but love from love, towards school with heavy looks.
o for a falconer's voice to lure this tassel-gentle back again!
how silver-sweet sound lovers' tongues by night, like softest music to attending ears!
i shall forget, to have thee still stand there, remembering how i love thy company.
and i'll still stay, to have thee still forget, forgetting any other home but this.
parting is such sweet sorrow, that i shall say good night till it be morrow.
would i were sleep and peace, so sweet to rest!
hence will i to my ghostly father's cell, his help to crave and my dear hap to tell.
virtue itself turns vice, being misapplied, and vice sometime's by action dignified.
i have been feasting with mine enemy, where on a sudden one hath wounded me that's by me wounded.
is rosaline, that thou didst love so dear, so soon forsaken?
young men's love then lies not truly in their hearts, but in their eyes.
how much salt water thrown away in waste, to season love, that of it doth not taste!
if e'er thou wast thyself, and these woes thine, thou and these woes were all for rosaline.
pronounce this sentence then: women may fall when there's no strength in men.
not in a grave to lay one in, another out to have.
she whom i love now doth grace for grace and love for love allow.
why, that same pale hard-hearted wench, that rosaline, torments him so that he will sure run mad.
tybalt, the kinsman to old capulet, hath sent a letter to his father's house.
nay, he will answer the letter's master, how he dares, being dared.
he fights as you sing pricksong, keeps time, distance, and proportion; rests me his minim rest, one, two, and the third in your bosom!
the pox of such antic, lisping, affecting fantasticoes-these new tuners of accent!
that's as much as to say, such a case as yours constrains a man to bow in the hams.
thy wit is a very bitter sweeting; it is a most sharp sauce.
o, here's a wit of cheverel, that stretches from an inch narrow to an ell broad!
i stretch it out for that word' broad,' which, added to the goose, proves thee far and wide a broad goose.
now art thou sociable, now art thou romeo; now art thou what thou art, by art as well as by nature.
for this drivelling love is like a great natural that runs lolling up and down to hide his bauble in a hole.
thou desirest me to stop in my tale against the hair.
good peter, to hide her face; for her fan's the fairer face of the two.
tis no less, i tell ye; for the bawdy hand of the dial is now upon the prick of noon.
one, gentlewoman, that god hath made for himself to mar.
i can tell you; but young romeo will be older when you have found him than he was when you sought him.
if you be he, sir, i desire some confidence with you.
i pray you, sir, what saucy merchant was this that was so full of his ropery?
a gentleman, nurse, that loves to hear himself talk and will speak more in a minute than he will stand to in a month.
and thou must stand by too, and suffer every knave to use me at his pleasure!
i dare draw as soon as another man, if i see occasion in a good quarrel, and the law on my side.
i pro- test unto thee- good heart, and i' faith i will tell her as much.
bid her devise some means to come to shrift this afternoon; and there she shall at friar laurence' cell be shriv'd and married.
did you ne'er hear say, two may keep counsel, putting one away?
so smile the heavens upon this holy act that after-hours with sorrow chide us not!
these violent delights have violent ends and in their triumph die, like fire and powder, which, as they kiss, consume.
the sweetest honey is loathsome in his own deliciousness and in the taste confounds the appetite.
o, so light a foot will ne'er wear out the everlasting flint.
why, thou wilt quarrel with a man that hath a hair more or a hair less in his beard than thou hast.
thou hast quar rell'd with a man for coughing in the street, because he hath wakened thy dog that hath lain asleep in the sun.
couple it with something; make it a word and a blow.
but i'll be hang'd, sir, if he wear your livery.
boy, this shall not excuse the injuries that thou hast done me; therefore turn and draw.
will you pluck your sword out of his pitcher by the ears?
tybalt, mercutio, the prince expressly hath forbid this bandying in verona streets.
no,' tis not so deep as a well, nor so wide as a church door; but' tis enough,' twill serve.
ask for me to-morrow, and you shall find me a grave man.
zounds, a dog, a rat, a mouse, a cat, to scratch a man to death!
a braggart, a rogue, a villain, that fights by the book of arithmetic!
that gallant spirit hath aspir'd the clouds, which too untimely here did scorn the earth.
away to heaven respective lenity, and fire-ey'd fury be my conduct now!
thou, wretched boy, that didst consort him here, shalt with him hence.
prince, as thou art true, for blood of ours, shed blood of montague.
romeo, that spoke him fair, bid him bethink how nice the quarrel was, and urg'd withal your high displeasure.
not romeo, prince; he was mercutio's friend; his fault concludes but what the law should end, the life of tybalt.
and for that offence immediately we do exile him hence.
i will be deaf to pleading and excuses; nor tears nor prayers shall purchase out abuses.
let romeo hence in haste, else, when he is found, that hour is his last.
spread thy close curtain, love-performing night, that runaway eyes may wink, and romeo leap to these arms untalk'd of and unseen.
come, civil night, thou sober-suited matron, all in black, and learn me how to lose a winning match, play'd for a pair of stainless maidenhoods.
so tedious is this day as is the night before some festival to an impatient child that hath new robes and may not wear them.
say thou but' i,' and that bare vowel' i' shall poison more than the death-darting eye of cockatrice.
vile earth, to earth resign; end motion here, and thou and romeo press one heavy bier!
tybalt is gone, and romeo banished; romeo that kill'd him, he is banished.
just opposite to what thou justly seem'st- a damned saint, an honourable villain!
o, that deceit should dwell in such a gorgeous palace!
there's no trust, no faith, no honesty in men; all perjur'd, all forsworn, all naught, all dissemblers.
upon his brow shame is asham'd to sit; for' tis a throne where honour may be crown'd sole monarch of the universal earth.
will you speak well of him that kill'd your cousin?
shall i speak ill of him that is my husband?
ah, poor my lord, what tongue shall smooth thy name when i, thy three-hours' wife, have mangled it?
your tributary drops belong to woe, which you, mistaking, offer up to joy.
my husband lives, that tybalt would have slain; and tybalt's dead, that would have slain my husband.
some word there was, worser than tybalt's death, that murdered me.
i would forget it fain; but o, it presses to my memory like damned guilty deeds to sinners' minds!
tybalt is dead, and romeo banished.' that' banished,' that one word' banished,' hath slain ten thousand tybalts.
but with a rearward following tybalt's death,' romeo is banished' - to speak that word is father, mother, tybalt, romeo, juliet, all slain, all dead.
mine shall be spent, when theirs are dry, for romeo's banishment.
poor ropes, you are beguil'd, both you and i, for romeo is exil'd.
he made you for a highway to my bed; but i, a maid, die maiden-widowed.
give this ring to my true knight and bid him come to take his last farewell.
affliction is enamour'd of thy parts, and thou art wedded to calamity.
what sorrow craves acquaintance at my hand that i yet know not?
a gentler judgment vanish'd from his lips- not body's death, but body's banishment.
be merciful, say' death'; for exile hath more terror in his look, much more than death.
there is no world without verona walls, but purgatory, torture, hell itself.
calling death' banishment,' thou cut'st my head off with a golden axe and smilest upon the stroke that murders me.
more validity, more honourable state, more courtship lives in carrion flies than romeo.
this may flies do, when i from this must fly; they are free men, but i am banished.
unless philosophy can make a juliet, displant a town, reverse a prince's doom, it helps not, it prevails not.
not i; unless the breath of heartsick groans, mist-like infold me from the search of eyes.
there on the ground, with his own tears made drunk.
o, he is even in my mistress' case, just in her case!
doth not she think me an old murderer, now i have stain'd the childhood of our joy with blood remov'd but little from her own?
and what says my conceal'd lady to our cancell'd love?
o, tell me, friar, tell me, in what vile part of this anatomy doth my name lodge?
by my holy order, i thought thy disposition better temper'd.
and slay thy lady that in thy life lives, by doing damned hate upon thyself?
why railest thou on thy birth, the heaven, and earth?
since birth and heaven and earth, all three do meet in thee at once; which thou at once wouldst lose.
the law, that threat'ned death, becomes thy friend and turns it to exile.
go get thee to thy love, as was decreed, ascend her chamber, hence and comfort her.
o lord, i could have stay'd here all the night to hear good counsel.
here is a ring she bid me give you, sir.
i'll find out your man, and he shall signify from time to time every good hap to you that chances here.
but that a joy past joy calls out on me, it were a grief so brief to part with thee.
things have fall'n out, sir, so unluckily that we have had no time to move our daughter.
look you, she lov'd her kinsman tybalt dearly, and so did i.
i promise you, but for your company, i would have been abed an hour ago.
i will, and know her mind early to-morrow; to-night she's mew'd up to her heaviness.
sir paris, i will make a desperate tender of my child's love.
i think she will be rul'd in all respects by me; nay more, i doubt it not.
thursday let it be- a thursday, tell her she shall be married to this noble earl.
therefore we'll have some half a dozen friends, and there an end.
afore me, it is so very very late that we may call it early by-and-by.
it was the lark, the herald of the morn; no nightingale.
look, love, what envious streaks do lace the severing clouds in yonder east.
night's candles are burnt out, and jocund day stands tiptoe on the misty mountain tops.
i must be gone and live, or stay and die.
it is some meteor that the sun exhales to be to thee this night a torchbearer and light thee on thy way to mantua.
some say the lark makes sweet division; this doth not so, for she divideth us.
i must hear from thee every day in the hour, for in a minute there are many days.
o, by this count i shall be much in years ere i again behold my romeo!
i doubt it not; and all these woes shall serve for sweet discourses in our time to come.
methinks i see thee, now thou art below, as one dead in the bottom of a tomb.
if thou art fickle, what dost thou with him that is renown'd for faith?
be fickle, fortune, for then i hope thou wilt not keep him long but send him back.
an if thou could'st, thou could'st not make him live.
some grief shows much of love; but much of grief shows still some want of wit.
feeling so the loss, i cannot choose but ever weep the friend.
well, girl, thou weep'st not so much for his death as that the villain lives which slaughter'd him.
i do, with all my heart; and yet no man like he doth grieve my heart.
indeed i never shall be satisfied with romeo till i behold him- dead - is my poor heart so for a kinsman vex'd.
find thou the means, and i'll find such a man.
when the sun sets the air doth drizzle dew, but for the sunset of my brother's son it rains downright.
doth she not count her blest, unworthy as she is, that we have wrought so worthy a gentleman to be her bridegroom?
proud can i never be of what i hate, but thankful even for hate that is meant love.
i tell thee what-get thee to church a thursday or never after look me in the face.
utter your gravity o'er a gossip's bowl, for here we need it not.
is there no pity sitting in the clouds that sees into the bottom of my grief?
delay this marriage for a month, a week; or if you do not, make the bridal bed in that dim monument where tybalt lies.
how shall that faith return again to earth unless that husband send it me from heaven by leaving earth?
alack, alack, that heaven should practise stratagems upon so soft a subject as myself!
then, since the case so stands as now it doth, i think it best you married with the county.
go in; and tell my lady i am gone, having displeas'd my father, to laurence' cell, to make confession and to be absolv'd.
my father capulet will have it so, and i am nothing slow to slack his haste.
i would i knew not why it should be slow'd.
if i do so, it will be of more price, being spoke behind your back, than to your face.
the tears have got small victory by that, for it was bad enough before their spite.
it may be so, for it is not mine own.
are you at leisure, holy father, now, or shall i come to you at evening mass?
i hear thou must, and nothing may prorogue it, on thursday next be married to this county.
tell me not, friar, that thou hear'st of this, unless thou tell me how i may prevent it.
i long to die if what thou speak'st speak not of remedy.
i do spy a kind of hope, which craves as desperate an execution as that is desperate which we would prevent.
now, when the bridegroom in the morning comes to rouse thee from thy bed, there art thou dead.
i'll send a friar with speed to mantua, with my letters to thy lord.
you shall have none ill, sir; for i'll try if they can lick their fingers.
marry, sir,' tis an ill cook that cannot lick his own fingers.
i met the youthful lord at laurence' cell and gave him what becomed love i might, not stepping o'er the bounds of modesty.
now, afore god, this reverend holy friar, all our whole city is much bound to him.
nurse, will you go with me into my closet to help me sort such needful ornaments as you think fit to furnish me to-morrow?
they are all forth; well, i will walk myself to county paris, to prepare him up against to-morrow.
my heart is wondrous light, since this same wayward girl is so reclaim'd.
no, madam; we have cull'd such necessaries as are behoveful for our state to-morrow.
get thee to bed, and rest; for thou hast need.
i have a faint cold fear thrills through my veins that almost freezes up the heat of life.
how if, when i am laid into the tomb, i wake before the time that romeo come to redeem me?
methinks i see my cousin's ghost seeking out romeo, that did spit his body upon a rapier's point.
the second cock hath crow'd, the curfew bell hath rung,' tis three o'clock.
ay, you have been a mouse-hunt in your time; but i will watch you from such watching now.
things for the cook, sir; but i know not what.
i have a head, sir, that will find out logs and never trouble peter for the matter.
the county will be here with music straight, for so he said he would.
sleep for a week; for the next night, i warrant, the county paris hath set up his rest that you shall rest but little.
o son, the night before thy wedding day hath death lain with thy wife.
see, there she lies, flower as she was, deflowered by him.
have i thought long to see this morning's face, and doth it give me such a sight as this?
most miserable hour that e'er time saw in lasting labour of his pilgrimage!
most lamentable day, most woeful day that ever ever i did yet behold!
uncomfortable time, why cam'st thou now to murder, murder our solemnity?
alack, my child is dead, and with my child my joys are buried!
o, in this love, you love your child so ill that you run mad, seeing that she is well.
sir, go you in; and, madam, go with him; and go, sir paris.
then will i lay the serving-creature's dagger on your pate.
an you re us and fa us, you note us.
pray you put up your dagger, and put out your wit.
i will dry-beat you with an iron wit, and put up my iron dagger.
it is' music with her silver sound' because musi- cians have no gold for sounding.
then music with her silver sound with speedy help doth lend redress.' what a pestilent knave is this same!
come, we'll in here, tarry for the mourners, and stay dinner.
my bosom's lord sits lightly in his throne, and all this day an unaccustom'd spirit lifts me above the ground with cheerful thoughts.
i dreamt my lady came and found me dead ( strange dream that gives a dead man leave to think!
and breath'd such life with kisses in my lips that i reviv'd and was an emperor.
how sweet is love itself possess'd, when but love's shadows are so rich in joy!
her body sleeps in capels' monument, and her immortal part with angels lives.
i saw her laid low in her kindred's vault and presently took post to tell it you.
your looks are pale and wild and do import some misadventure.
i do remember an apothecary, and hereabouts he dwells, which late i noted in tatt'red weeds, with overwhelming brows, culling of simples.
such mortal drugs i have; but mantua's law is death to any he that utters them.
art thou so bare and full of wretchedness and fearest to die?
whistle then to me, as signal that thou hear'st something approach.
i am almost afraid to stand alone here in the churchyard; yet i will adventure.
the obsequies that i for thee will keep nightly shall be to strew thy grave and weep.
what cursed foot wanders this way to-night to cross my obsequies and true love's rite?
early in the morning see thou deliver it to my lord and father.
the time and my intents are savage-wild, more fierce and more inexorable far than empty tigers or the roaring sea.
by heaven, i love thee better than myself, for i come hither arm'd against myself.
live, and hereafter say a madman's mercy bid thee run away.
i do defy thy conjuration and apprehend thee for a felon here.
if thou be merciful, open the tomb, lay me with juliet.
what said my man when my betossed soul did not attend him as we rode?
or am i mad, hearing him talk of juliet to think it was so?
o, give me thy hand, one writ with me in sour misfortune's book!
o, no, a lantern, slaughtr'd youth, for here lies juliet, and her beauty makes this vault a feasting presence full of light.
how oft when men are at the point of death have they been merry!
death, that hath suck'd the honey of thy breath, hath had no power yet upon thy beauty.
beauty's ensign yet is crimson in thy lips and in thy cheeks, and death's pale flag is not advanced there.
for fear of that i still will stay with thee and never from this palace of dim night depart again.
here, here will i remain with worms that are thy chambermaids.
o, here will i set up my everlasting rest and shake the yoke of inauspicious stars from this world-wearied flesh.
and, lips, o you the doors of breath, seal with a righteous kiss a dateless bargain to engrossing death!
thou desperate pilot, now at once run on the dashing rocks thy seasick weary bark!
how oft to-night have my old feet stumbled at graves!
here's one, a friend, and one that knows you well.
it doth so, holy sir; and there's my master, one that you love.
what mean these masterless and gory swords to lie discolour'd by this place of peace?
ah, what an unkind hour is guilty of this lamentable chance!
thy husband in thy bosom there lies dead; and paris too.
come, i'll dispose of thee among a sisterhood of holy nuns.
drunk all, and left no friendly drop to help me after?
haply some poison yet doth hang on them to make me die with a restorative.
here lies the county slain; and juliet bleeding, warm, and newly dead, who here hath lain this two days buried.
we see the ground whereon these woes do lie, but the true ground of all these piteous woes we cannot without circumstance descry.
we took this mattock and this spade from him as he was coming from this churchyard side.
what misadventure is so early up, that calls our person from our morning rest?
the people in the street cry' romeo,' some' juliet,' and some' paris'; and all run, with open outcry, toward our monument.
sovereign, here lies the county paris slain; and romeo dead; and juliet, dead before, warm and new kill'd.
here is a friar, and slaughter'd romeo's man, with instruments upon them fit to open these dead men's tombs.
this dagger hath mista'en, for, lo, his house is empty on the back of montague, and it missheathed in my daughter's bosom!
this sight of death is as a bell that warns my old age to a sepulchre.
come, montague; for thou art early up to see thy son and heir more early down.
what manners is in this, to press before thy father to a grave?
romeo, there dead, was husband to that juliet; and she, there dead, that romeo's faithful wife.
you, to remove that siege of grief from her, betroth'd and would have married her perforce to county paris.
but he which bore my letter, friar john, was stay'd by accident, and yesternight return'd my letter back.
but when i came, some minute ere the time of her awaking, here untimely lay the noble paris and true romeo dead.
i brought my master news of juliet's death; and then in post he came from mantua to this same place, to this same monument.
he came with flowers to strew his lady's grave; and bid me stand aloof, and so i did.
capulet, montage, see what a scourge is laid upon your hate, that heaven finds means to kill your joys with love!
and i, for winking at you, discords too, have lost a brace of kinsmen.
this is my daughter's jointure, for no more can i demand.
as rich shall romeo's by his lady's lie- poor sacrifices of our enmity!
